README.md, before:

# Clothing Recommender

Welcome to the Clothing Recommender project! This web application recommends clothing items similar to users' favorite clothes by analyzing user-uploaded images. The recommendations are based on feature extraction using the pre-trained CNN model, ResNet50.

## Work in Progress

This project is currently under development. Here’s what we’re working on:

- **Google Cloud for Image Storage:** Integrating Google Cloud for storing and managing images.
- **Include More Images in Database:** Adding additional images to the database to improve functionality and user experience.
- **Signup:** Adding user signup functionality.
- **Dashboard:** Developing dashboards for both employees and customers to manage and view relevant information.

## Project Overview

The Clothing Recommender is designed to help users discover clothing items that are similar to their favorite clothing items. We utilized a dataset of over 10,000 clothing items from Kaggle (VITON HD) and processed them using the ResNet50 model to extract features. These features are embedded in a vector space, and user-uploaded images are similarly processed to obtain the top 10 similar clothing items.

## Features

- **Image Upload**: Upload images of your favorite clothing items.
- **Clothing Recommendation**: Get recommendations for similar clothing items based on image analysis.
- **Interactive UI**: User-friendly interface built with React.

## Image Storage and Dataset Requirements

Currently, this project stores images locally. The images used in this project were obtained from the [High-Resolution VITON Zalando Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marquis03/high-resolution-viton-zalando-dataset) on Kaggle.

### Steps to Set Up

1. **Download the Dataset:**

   - Download the images from the [High-Resolution VITON Zalando Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marquis03/high-resolution-viton-zalando-dataset).
   - Save these images to the `front/public/assets/` directory in your local setup.

2. **Obtain Vector Embeddings:**
   - You will need the vector embeddings in the form of `embeddings.csv`.
   - Place the `embeddings.csv` file in the `back/` directory.

By completing these steps, you'll have all the necessary resources for the program to run as expected.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- Node.js
- Flask
- React

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/khmorad/clothingRecommendationApp.git
cd clothingRecommendationApp
```

### Backend Setup

1. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
```

2. Install the required Python packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the Flask server:

```bash
flask run
```

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the `frontend` directory:

```bash
cd frontend
```

2. Install the required Node.js packages:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the React development server:

```bash
npm start
```

## Usage

1. Start the Flask backend server.
2. Start the React frontend development server.
3. Open your web browser and go to `http://localhost:3000`.
4. Upload an image of a clothing item to receive recommendations.

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: React, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- **Backend**: Flask, Python
- **Machine Learning**: TensorFlow, ResNet50

## Team Members

- **Yar Moradpour**
- **Shizuka Takao**

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Added colab link to generate embeddings.csv

README.md, after:

# Clothing Recommender

Welcome to the Clothing Recommender project! This web application recommends clothing items similar to users' favorite clothes by analyzing user-uploaded images. The recommendations are based on feature extraction using the pre-trained CNN model, ResNet50.

## Work in Progress

This project is currently under development. Here’s what we’re working on:

- **Google Cloud for Image Storage:** Integrating Google Cloud for storing and managing images.
- **Include More Images in Database:** Adding additional images to the database to improve functionality and user experience.
- **Signup:** Adding user signup functionality.
- **Dashboard:** Developing dashboards for both employees and customers to manage and view relevant information.

## Project Overview

The Clothing Recommender is designed to help users discover clothing items that are similar to their favorite clothing items. We utilized a dataset of over 10,000 clothing items from Kaggle (VITON HD) and processed them using the ResNet50 model to extract features. These features are embedded in a vector space, and user-uploaded images are similarly processed to obtain the top 10 similar clothing items.

## Features

- **Image Upload**: Upload images of your favorite clothing items.
- **Clothing Recommendation**: Get recommendations for similar clothing items based on image analysis.
- **Interactive UI**: User-friendly interface built with React.

## Image Storage and Dataset Requirements

Currently, this project stores images locally. The images used in this project were obtained from the [High-Resolution VITON Zalando Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marquis03/high-resolution-viton-zalando-dataset) on Kaggle.

### Steps to Set Up

1. **Download the Dataset:**

   - Download the images from the [High-Resolution VITON Zalando Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/marquis03/high-resolution-viton-zalando-dataset).
   - Save these images to the `front/public/assets/` directory in your local setup.

2. **Obtain Vector Embeddings:**
   - You will need the vector embeddings in the form of `embeddings.csv`.
   - Place the `embeddings.csv` file in the `back/` directory.

By completing these steps, you'll have all the necessary resources for the program to run as expected.

## Generating `embeddings.csv`

To generate your own `embeddings.csv` file, you can use our Google Colab notebook, which provides a step-by-step guide for generating embeddings from images. Follow the instructions in the notebook to produce the `embeddings.csv` file.

- [Open the Google Colab Notebook to Generate Embeddings](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1NaUW0ZwhezbDh7SIIM5MiTNEw7H-qNpB?usp=sharing)

### Instructions:

1. Open the notebook in Google Colab.
2. Run the cells to generate the `embeddings.csv` file.
3. Download the `embeddings.csv` file and place it in the `back/` directory of your project.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7+
- Node.js
- Flask
- React

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/khmorad/clothingRecommendationApp.git
cd clothingRecommendationApp
```

### Backend Setup

1. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
```

2. Install the required Python packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the Flask server:

```bash
flask run
```

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the `frontend` directory:

```bash
cd frontend
```

2. Install the required Node.js packages:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the React development server:

```bash
npm start
```

## Usage

1. Start the Flask backend server.
2. Start the React frontend development server.
3. Open your web browser and go to `http://localhost:3000`.
4. Upload an image of a clothing item to receive recommendations.

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: React, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
- **Backend**: Flask, Python
- **Machine Learning**: TensorFlow, ResNet50

## Team Members

- **Yar Moradpour**
- **Shizuka Takao**

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
